and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business
growth show i'm delighted to be joined
by anna
shutko today anna is the product
marketing manager over at super metrics
super metrics picks up all the marketing
data you need and brings it to your
favorite reporting and analytics or
storage platform whether that's a
spreadsheet
a data visualization tool or a marketing
data warehouse anna a very
welcome to the show how are you doing
thank you so much for having me doing
great
good to hear excited to chat today anna
um and we we've got quite a
a controversial topic and i really want
to want to throw in at the deep end as
i do for many of my guests and um ask
you
as as a business as a as a
sales rep or whatever our role may be
should all of our decisions
when it comes to marketing be based on
data
yeah so that is indeed a very
interesting question
and i think there is a difference
between
being data driven and being data
informed first of all
so um in my understanding being data
driven
would be more kind of maybe
following the data but not you know
thinking critically about this or not
you know
thinking through which exactly exactly
which decisions you're
making based on data and how exactly
you're making these decisions so the
process of making these decisions
and being data informed is
more like it's it's more of a situation
where
you have a certain report you have you
know specific metrics dimensions
uh certain data set and then you
understand the way you are
making decisions with this data and the
data
kind of guides you but it doesn't
necessarily mean
that you are blindly following it so
this also comes to the marketing
analytics part this comes to the to
analytics in general
when you take a large number of factors
into consideration to base your decision
making on
and you have a rich you know subset of
data
and then you use certain methods
sometimes like
some close you know research methods
um and you arrive to a certain
conclusion
based on this large variety of data and
these data sets so i would
stick to maybe being more data informed
rather than just data driven and
well like i mentioned take many many
different factors
into consideration when making this
decision and then that's the difference
between the two really so
yeah that also very much relates to
you know the ability of a professional
to create this actionable report
with all this data okay okay so
two two different ways to look at it it
sounds like anna
and i mean perhaps to give both myself
and everyone that's tuning in a tangible
example um let's throw this perhaps into
my world
as as my head can only manage so much
stuff and when it comes to analytics
sometimes i can't always process it too
fast
so if we are talking about let's say
let's say we'd recently built our
business a website for example
and we were looking at different
channels to get that all important
traffic to our site
um and get those all important either
leads if we're a b2b
company or possibly btc or customers if
we're selling directly through our
website
um and we're perhaps perhaps we're
looking at different channels perhaps
we're looking at things like maybe
facebook ads maybe we're looking at
google ads
maybe we're looking at seo um
or maybe we're looking at sponsored
listings on another type of site like
clutch or good firms or g2 crowd
um how do we if it's something that's
new to us
how do we go by the data um or can we
can we if it's a new channel we've
perhaps not tested yet
yeah sure so that really again comes
down to
several different things so first of all
you really have to consider
the difference between qualitative data
and quantitative data so whenever
you're starting you know testing a new
channel
you don't really have you know enough
quantitative data to make a sound
decision based on that data it's just
you know like simply
uh the threshold is there and
you sometimes do not have enough clicks
or enough impressions
just like you know the minimum amount to
make any kind of conclusion
so what you would want to do first is uh
maybe analyze the from the
qualitative data perspective so you
can maybe try to understand more things
about your audience
what could the hypothesis be
coin positioning messaging test it out
then collect enough quantitative data
and then whenever you are testing
different hypotheses you've created
using your qualitative analysis and this
can be collected by
sitting on calls with sales reps there
are lots of different means of
collecting this data
then after you've processed it after
you've made a particular decision then
you kind of confirm this decision with
more qualitative data
so you calculate the roi i prefer
maybe i'm not looking at
such so to say vanity metrics like
impressions for example but really
understand how many conversions you're
driving how many leads you're driving
or depends on the business model
whatever you're selling and then
calculate the roi
and then see after that which channel is
actually really bringing you the revenue
so that then can be confirmed with more
quantitative data
and is there on that note anna's is
there much we can do
so we can understand like you say not
look at the vanity metrics so if that's
in the digital marketing game that might
be
impressions people landing on a website
but at the end of the day all of us
really want revenue so we want those
conversions so we want those leads that
are going to
lead to a sell or if we're selling
directly we want people to convert and
and purchase our stuff um but is there
much we can actually
do apart from understanding how many
let's say leads we need to drive or sell
or how many sales we need to hit
certain targets is there much research
we can do before we actually physically
invest
in the channels and then work off the
data we've been given
is there much we can do pre kind of
spending money as to say or
pre-investing our
marketing steam time yeah definitely so
i think every marketer ideally should
try to adopt the mindset of the business
owner
so not just strictly focusing on
the marketing and by the way that also
applies to sales
on customer success or really any
position
in the company but especially it applies
to marketers because
marketing almost always spans
you know through everything and it's
very crucial for
a marketing manager to understand the
business and
different factors that drive it so i
would say
you should adopt this business owner
mindset try to understand
how your product and website or whatever
you're selling functions
from the user perspective and i really
really like
on one advice my mentor has given to me
once
he said that uh whenever you're
thinking about you know the way a
customer proceeds
um to your website after you know seeing
certain ads
you should always envision the whole
flow so it's not enough
if you were just you know coining
positioning and messaging
you should really think where these
people would land on your website
how these pages are structured how
exactly would they convert
and what would happen to these leads
after the conversion
so for example you might want to send
them an email follow-up
or you might want to invite them to take
a course uh that would educate them
about your products you should always
try to
think uh 360 sort of right if i can
phrase it like this
and of course that would bring much more
data to you so that not only are you you
know focusing on
say um clicks but not only conversions
also
you know like email opens and again that
brings lots of other data you can
analyze
so this would give you
the uh you know the like
wide perspective white perspective so to
say so
it's not just uh strictly marketing
anymore
got it okay so essentially looking at
all angles
exactly what of what's involved so bring
it back to the website side of things
whether that's like you say
um whether that's people going through
certain landing pages
whether there's automated emails after
they fill out a form
whether there's then an email kind of
sequence that that follows that up
and really understanding the whole
process
okay all right um so that that makes
sense for us
and is that all we can really do before
we actually spend our cash or before we
get our marketing
team to to start investing i think
yeah and also it really takes time
to you know think about all these things
you don't necessarily have to you know
go and start implementing these email
campaigns tomorrow
but it would be very very good to think
what would happen after
a certain person lands on a certain page
so that well like i mentioned becomes
multiple-sided and this way you will
also collaborate with your colleagues
better
to really deliver a full experience to
your
potential customer yeah i like it and
then
okay once once we jump in once we do
start actually
working on different campaigns once
we've perhaps decided on
some marketing strategies that we want
to go ahead with
um how much time is this is this is
something that people ask me quite a lot
actually and so i'd be interested to
know your take sir
how much is enough time to test a
marketing channel in your opinion
and get enough data from it i can we do
it for a day can we do it for a week can
we do it for a month we meant to do it
for six months
and um obviously i appreciate it's gonna
vary from channel to channel so it's a
bit of a tough question
but i'd be interested to know your take
on on when's enough the data to work off
yeah you might hate me right here but
again i'll just say it depends
because really um whenever you're
starting out with a new channel
it well very much depends on the
business you're operating in very much
depends on the product but
apart from these two things it very much
depends on the sales cycle
for example uh we have self-serve
sides so some self-serve products at
super metrics and then we have the
enterprise line
and obviously nurturing um an enterprise
lead is much more challenging because
that involves many more decision makers
and
each of these decision makers uh ha
they have to receive you know um certain
kinds
of messaging each of them to make a
sound decision so we have to educate
them
before they make a decision first and
then we have to understand
how these decision makers collaborate
with each other and who's
the final decision maker there so that
uh brings again that brings me back to
the previous point when we have to
analyze a lot of data
to even come up with different channels
or
you know theories to test um but to
comment
uh about how and like how long
should we test a specific uh channel for
um well again depends but i would say
you should proceed quickly so you should
always try to you know come up with a
certain hypothesis test it i would say
for a week and then see the initial
results and then always adjust it so
don't try to stick with one
test or one hypothesis for too long try
to change
a like a large number of them and then
monitor some metrics that will be the
leading
indicators which direction you should go
to and then
try something else and then see kind of
like what works then
yeah and in your experience and it's
always a case of
if you've if you've given it a test for
say a week two weeks
and it's not giving a positive return
are you not getting enough leads or
you're not getting enough revenue
or if it's if it's quite close off the
mark i mean how
again this is a tricky one but how hard
is it to tell when when
you should keep something going or when
you should just switch it or completely
mix it up and
say look this is this campaign's not
working this channel is not for us
now's enough let's switch it off and
move on to the next next campaign or the
next idea
yeah i feel like uh you should be able
to see
the results you get from good
positioning
and good messaging pretty much straight
away and
that again kind of brings me to my
previous point so you should collect not
only
qualitative data so not just the numbers
but also quantitative data
so at the very same time you're running
a certain experiment don't just look at
the numbers try to talk to people try to
hop on you know these calls with
customers and say like hey
we think the product does you know like
abc
or it works best for abcd and by the way
i do this a lot with my clients for
example whenever we are to release
a certain integration a certain
connector i can call
some of my clients and just ask them
just ask like hey we have this what do
you think
like yeah if marketers are our target
audience then i just say hey
would you use it like this so i just
have a hypothesis i ask them
and they can give much much more
useful and actionable
information and insights than one might
think so i would just
ask a lot of questions and look at the
numbers at the same time so that's what
i would do
yeah yeah that will make sense so in
terms of um
using data on more generally speaking
do you think from your experience and it
helps you to make decisions faster
because you've got it there in front of
you rather than perhaps going off your
gut
what you think might work in terms of
marketing channel for your business is
it something that
will be faster or is it does it take
longer because we have to analyze
everything we have to go through
everything things
and kind of really work out the formulas
and what may or may not work
yeah i think that definitely having
more data at your fingertips makes you
faster it does not slow you down
but of course you should create a very
good dashboard for yourself so
don't try to stuff everything you see
into the dashboard
i would say pick one or two north star
metrics so to say and always pay
attention to the roi
so whenever you have your focus on the
roi
it makes things easier so you can
instantly see whether something is
working or not
and yeah i would say do that
uh try to follow these indicators and uh
of course whenever you have like like i
mentioned when you have lots of these
experiments and when you experiment fast
and you proceed quickly
you need some data to support you so
when
you will have this in your dashboard
that will definitely make you
faster and you can always change these
metrics you can always adjust this
dashboard it's not like
it's set in stone so try to also see
or think about which metrics would work
in every single particular situation
okay and as as a general rule are there
if we bring it back to the website
scenario and we are
let's say a small to medium business
we're we're running a company our
website is perhaps
there to showcase our wares and generate
inbound leads
are there certain things we need to be
aware of on what we is crucial for us to
measure across the website
and are there perhaps other things
outside of the website that we should be
considering as well to measure from a
data
perspective yeah definitely so
from the website perspective i would
think well
about the user flows and how your
content and your pages really
you know like support each other so for
example
you might have a pricing page and
then in case something on your
pricing or product page needs a
clarification you might want to direct
these readers to a particular
article and then monitor how many people
you know click around on your website
what do they click
and what could what kind of questions
could they possibly have
after they've landed on a certain page
and again
try to have as many interviews and try
to talk to your clients as much as
possible to
also see it from their perspective and
apart from the website um maybe like i
previously mentioned try to also monitor
how your campaigns are running so
campaign metrics uh ppc campaigns
of course seo should be a very big part
and
seo metrics are very important to
measure usually
if you measure ppc and seo in tandem you
might uncover
very good opportunities in terms of
keywords or particular topics you could
cover with your content
or maybe you will uncover more
keywords to bid on from the ppc
perspective so that bundle is
very very strong and i would highly
recommend analyzing
these two types of data together um
think about your email flows
think about uh if you can you know
have a blog subscriber list
or maybe uh for example whenever we
release a new integration we invite
people to join our test squad so to say
where they can receive emails
about the progress we're making for our
connectors
and this way we can also get feedback
and really keep in contact with the
customers so of course we monitor
you know the email opens how many people
clicked where did they click
and yeah try to incorporate
and kind of combine different
elements together try to link different
elements together
to have very solid user experience
that was a that was great breakdown and
i i really love how it's
essentially understanding all elements
of your your website really
so understanding how people interact
with it where they click through
um what they might not need to see like
you say in terms of a pricing page they
might need supporting articles if
they're not quite ready to
discuss pricing with sales they might
need a blog or an article or video to
support that
to reinforce the strength in fact um i
love the point where you mentioned about
talking to your clients
i actually um one of our one of my own
clients this
runs a web hosting company um we we
built him a site
some years back but he um so we designed
that for him
and anyway he ran a survey via email to
i think about 2 000 of his clients and
essentially said look how how are you
finding our website on a scale of one to
ten how do you like the design
how user-friendly do you find a bunch of
all these questions
um and the feedback was was really
interesting because they basically said
they
whilst they thought the design was good
they thought it was too agency-like
so it wasn't it wasn't like a typical
hosting um platform where you could
easily find the prices they were
basically saying
your design's too custom it's too
unusual whilst it's good it needs to be
more template-based more simplified
and easier to just view hosting plans
and purchase them
so literally working off that data that
his customers gave him he's now
redesigning his site
um but the point i'm trying to make is
this is a mistake that i've been guilty
of in the past that many of my clients
are guilty of instead of
building things whether that's designing
a site whether that's building any kind
of marketing material rather than just
building it for what you think looks
good or what you think is going to work
well
use the data from your customers and
just like you say you can you can
literally talk to your customers asking
the questions you want to know
and they'll give you all the intel you
know to design to build to structure the
campaign that's actually going to get
results
because at the end of the day they're
the ones that's going to be using it not
uri
yeah exactly good stuff interesting so
yeah on on that kind of point you
mentioned quite a lot of um
different ways we can we can measure
especially activity on our website anna
so are there any
specific tools that you recommend or
specific platforms that you recommend
that
we should really be considering um from
perhaps a more basic standpoint we don't
need to go
into two complex tools but any any as a
baseline that we should
we should definitely look at uh do you
mean
different platforms for report creation
or something that would help you measure
different
elements or yeah i think i think
both really so i think perhaps uh a
couple platforms
or tools that would be good to kind of
measure data
for for everything we've discussed and
then yeah perhaps analytics as well if
there's
if there's ones you'd recommend yeah
sure so
basically um i can mention my company
super metrics so
like you previously mentioned what we do
we transfer data from different
platforms such as
google analytics uh google ads facebook
ads linkedin ads
smrish ahrefs shopify you name it
to different tools where you can analyze
your data such as google sheets google
data studio
bi tools data warehouses etc so
basically when it comes to reporting
we have several platforms for
several different purposes so for
example
if you are a small team then you might
want to use
google sheets because it's a very very
it's very it's a very simple and
yet a very powerful tool where you can
pull all your data and crunch the
numbers and create reports and you can
use formulas there easily
and if you are an agency and if you love
creating reports
um that are visually beautiful
and especially that you're working with
the clients
you might want to use google data studio
so that's a free tool from google where
you can create
visually standing reports and again
uh use some formulas maybe
not to the extent you would use them in
google sheets to create the reports
there
i mentioned the bi tools and data
warehousing now the topic of
marketing data warehousing as uh
getting more and more popular so to say
so
instead of just storing data in a
spreadsheets
larger companies are moving to data
warehouses so you can store the data
there and then
it usually has native connectors to for
example
a power bi or again data studio so you
can
create really really beautiful reports
there without
sacrificing the speed
so because normally a spreadsheet would
slow down if you just have too much data
there
and yeah so i would say these are
the best tools just again because
they're free easy to understand
and suitable for many different
scenarios
that makes sense and if anyone's
thinking of this much like
i i understand probably about 90 of it
but there is some some data that's why
i've got a tech team with
me that are much smarter than i am when
it comes to development when it comes to
digital marketing
and hence why i tend to do most of the
client account management as there's
only so much i can
and comprehend that said if there's
anyone tuning in that wants to really
get to grips with
um data putting it into play making sure
their marketing decisions are really
backed by data
and basically absorbing everything we've
discussed today are there any useful
resources
anna and you can point people to that
you think could really help them get to
get to grips with the basics and beyond
yeah definitely so we really try to
provide
as many useful resources as possible so
if you are more of an audio learner
you can visit our podcast so it's called
the marketing analytics show and you
will easily find it from the
resources tab on supermetrix.com website
so every two weeks i have a conversation
with a marketing professional and we
discuss
different aspects and topics about
marketing analytics and it's really
suitable for everyone has lots and lots
of actionable advice
and yeah if you if you love it you can
tune in and if you are more into reading
we have a fantastic blog
where we cover lots of different topics
and
if you would like to get a more
comprehensive education so to say
we just launched a course on conversion
excel so cxl and it's a course called
super metrics for marketers
and i will teach you how to create
reports do marketing analytics and
use super metrics there so visit
cxl.com if you're interested in learning
more about marketing reporting and super
metrics
awesome anna look really appreciate the
conversation thanks very much for coming
on and teaching us
more about how we can utilize data to
make more better informed marketing
decisions
um and on that note is there anything
else um you'd like to direct your
audience to or perhaps connect with
yourself in terms of linkedin or socials
yeah sure so i am a very
very happy podcast host and i love
chatting with people and always open to
different
guest suggestions or questions
suggestions so if you're listening and
you would love to connect with me then
feel free to send me a dm
on twitter or linkedin and i'm at
anastutco
everywhere so yeah just feel free to
reach out to me
awesome and i want to thank you once
again for coming on the show
really enjoyed it thank you so much for
having me it was super fun
no worries so we'll put all the links
anna's mentioned over in the show notes
over at businessgrowth.marketing
and as always if you enjoyed this show
be sure to hit subscribe to business
grow show wherever the heck you get your
podcast from
we interview business leaders each and
every week to provide actionable tips
across marketing
business all to grow your sales and with
that we will catch you on the next
episode